README.md, before:

[![CI](https://github.com/techops-recsys-lateral-hiring/developer-joyofenergy-cpp/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/techops-recsys-lateral-hiring/developer-joyofenergy-cpp/actions/workflows/ci.yml)

# Welcome to PowerDale

PowerDale is a small town with around 100 residents. Most houses have a smart meter installed that can save and send
information about how much power a house is drawing/using.

There are three major providers of energy in town that charge different amounts for the power they supply.

- _Dr Evil's Dark Energy_
- _The Green Eco_
- _Power for Everyone_

# Introducing JOI Energy

JOI Energy is a new start-up in the energy industry. Rather than selling energy they want to differentiate themselves
from the market by recording their customers' energy usage from their smart meters and recommending the best supplier to
meet their needs.

You have been placed into their development team, whose current goal is to produce an API which their customers and
smart meters will interact with.

Unfortunately, two members of the team are on annual leave, and another one has called in sick! You are left with
another ThoughtWorker to progress with the current user stories on the story wall. This is your chance to make an impact
on the business, improve the code base and deliver value.

## Story Wall

At JOI energy the development team use a story wall or Kanban board to keep track of features or "stories" as they are
worked on.

The wall you will be working from today has 7 columns:

- Backlog
- Ready for Dev
- In Dev
- Ready for Testing
- In Testing
- Ready for sign off
- Done

Examples can be found
here [https://leankit.com/learn/kanban/kanban-board/](https://leankit.com/learn/kanban/kanban-board/)

## Users

To trial the new JOI software 5 people from the JOI accounts team have agreed to test the service and share their energy
data.

| User    | Smart Meter ID  | Power Supplier        |
| ------- | --------------- | --------------------- |
| Sarah   | `smart-meter-0` | Dr Evil's Dark Energy |
| Peter   | `smart-meter-1` | The Green Eco         |
| Charlie | `smart-meter-2` | Dr Evil's Dark Energy |
| Andrea  | `smart-meter-3` | Power for Everyone    |
| Alex    | `smart-meter-4` | The Green Eco         |

These values are used in the code and in the following examples too.

## Requirements

The project requires Cmake 3.21 or
higher.

The project makes use of Conan.

## Useful Conan commands

The project makes use of Conan to help you out carrying some common tasks such as building
the project or running it.

### Build the project

Compiles the project, runs the test and then creates an executable file.

```console
$ mkdir build && cd build
$ conan install .. --build missing
$ cmake ..
$ cmake --build .
```


### Run the tests

There are two types of tests, the unit tests and the functional tests. These can be executed as follows.

- Run functional tests only

  ```console
  $ ctest .
  ```


### Run the application
  ```console
  $ ./app <address> <kPort> <concurrency>
  ```

## API

Below is a list of API endpoints with their respective input and output. Please note that the application needs to be
running for the following endpoints to work. For more information about how to run the application, please refer
to [run the application](#run-the-application) section above.

### Store Readings

Endpoint

```text
POST /readings/store
```

Example of body

```json
{
  "smartMeterId": <smartMeterId>,
  "electricityReadings": [
    {
      "time": <time>,
      "reading": <reading>
    }
  ]
}
```

Parameters

| Parameter      | Description                                           |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `smartMeterId` | One of the smart meters' id listed above              |
| `time`         | The date/time (as RFC3399) when the _reading_ was taken |
| `reading`      | The consumption in `kW` at the _time_ of the reading  |

Example readings

| Date (`GMT`)      | RFC3399                       | Reading (`kW`) |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------- | -------------: |
| `2020-11-11 8:00` | `2020-11-18T08:00:00.725202Z` |         0.0503 |
| `2020-11-12 8:00` | `2020-11-18T08:00:00.725202Z` |         0.0213 |

In the above example, the smart meter sampled readings, in `kW`, every minute. Note that the reading is in `kW` and
not `kWH`, which means that each reading represents the consumption at the reading time. If no power is being consumed
at the time of reading, then the reading value will be `0`. Given that `0` may introduce new challenges, we can assume
that there is always some consumption, and we will never have a `0` reading value. These readings are then sent by the
smart meter to the application using REST. There is a service in the application that calculates the `kWH` from these
readings.

The following POST request, is an example request using CURL, sends the readings shown in the table above.

```console
$ curl \
  -X POST \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  "http://localhost:8080/readings/store" \
  -d '{"smartMeterId":"smart-meter-0","electricityReadings":[{"time":"2020-11-18T08:00:00.725202Z","reading":0.0503},{"time":"2020-11-18T08:00:00.725202Z","reading":0.0213}]}'
```

The above command does not return anything.

### Get Stored Readings

Endpoint

```text
GET /readings/read/<smartMeterId>
```

Parameters

| Parameter      | Description                              |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `smartMeterId` | One of the smart meters' id listed above |

Retrieving readings using CURL

```console
$ curl "http://localhost:8080/readings/read/smart-meter-0"
```

Example output

```json
{
    "readings": [
        {
            "reading": 0.4,
            "time": "2021-08-20T07:04:49.000000Z"
        },
        {
            "reading": 0.123,
            "time": "2021-08-20T07:07:49.000000Z"
        },
        {
            "reading": 0.23,
            "time": "2021-08-20T07:10:49.000000Z"
        },
        {
            "reading": 0.432,
            "time": "2021-08-20T07:13:49.000000Z"
        },
        {
            "reading": 0.44,
            "time": "2021-08-20T07:16:49.000000Z"
        }
    ]
}
```

### View Current Price Plan and Compare Usage Cost Against all Price Plans

Endpoint

```text
GET /price-plans/compare-all/<smartMeterId>
```

Parameters

| Parameter      | Description                              |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `smartMeterId` | One of the smart meters' id listed above |

Retrieving readings using CURL

```console
$ curl "http://localhost:8080/price-plans/compare-all/smart-meter-0"
```

Example output

```json
{
    "pricePlanComparisons": {
        "price-plan-0": 4.0,
        "price-plan-1": 0.8,
        "price-plan-2": 0.4
    },
    "pricePlanId": "price-plan-1"
}
```

### View Recommended Price Plans for Usage

Endpoint

```text
GET /price-plans/recommend/<smartMeterId>[?limit=<limit>]
```

Parameters

| Parameter      | Description                                          |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `smartMeterId` | One of the smart meters' id listed above             |
| `limit`        | (Optional) limit the number of plans to be displayed |

Retrieving readings using CURL

```console
$ curl "http://localhost:8080/price-plans/recommend/smart-meter-0?limit=2"
```

Example output

```json
{
    "recommend": [
        {
            "price-plan-2": 0.4
        },
        {
            "price-plan-1": 0.8
        }
    ]
}
```

Commit message:

Update README.md for building
Add build troubleshooting for C++ runtime library ABI issue

README.md, after:

[![CI](https://github.com/techops-recsys-lateral-hiring/developer-joyofenergy-cpp/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/techops-recsys-lateral-hiring/developer-joyofenergy-cpp/actions/workflows/ci.yml)

# Welcome to PowerDale

PowerDale is a small town with around 100 residents. Most houses have a smart meter installed that can save and send
information about how much power a house is drawing/using.

There are three major providers of energy in town that charge different amounts for the power they supply.

- _Dr Evil's Dark Energy_
- _The Green Eco_
- _Power for Everyone_

# Introducing JOI Energy

JOI Energy is a new start-up in the energy industry. Rather than selling energy they want to differentiate themselves
from the market by recording their customers' energy usage from their smart meters and recommending the best supplier to
meet their needs.

You have been placed into their development team, whose current goal is to produce an API which their customers and
smart meters will interact with.

Unfortunately, two members of the team are on annual leave, and another one has called in sick! You are left with
another ThoughtWorker to progress with the current user stories on the story wall. This is your chance to make an impact
on the business, improve the code base and deliver value.

## Story Wall

At JOI energy the development team use a story wall or Kanban board to keep track of features or "stories" as they are
worked on.

The wall you will be working from today has 7 columns:

- Backlog
- Ready for Dev
- In Dev
- Ready for Testing
- In Testing
- Ready for sign off
- Done

Examples can be found
here [https://leankit.com/learn/kanban/kanban-board/](https://leankit.com/learn/kanban/kanban-board/)

## Users

To trial the new JOI software 5 people from the JOI accounts team have agreed to test the service and share their energy
data.

| User    | Smart Meter ID  | Power Supplier        |
| ------- | --------------- | --------------------- |
| Sarah   | `smart-meter-0` | Dr Evil's Dark Energy |
| Peter   | `smart-meter-1` | The Green Eco         |
| Charlie | `smart-meter-2` | Dr Evil's Dark Energy |
| Andrea  | `smart-meter-3` | Power for Everyone    |
| Alex    | `smart-meter-4` | The Green Eco         |

These values are used in the code and in the following examples too.

## Requirements

The project requires Cmake 3.21 or
higher.

The project makes use of Conan.

## Useful Conan commands

The project makes use of Conan to help you out carrying some common tasks such as building
the project or running it.

### Build the project

Compiles the project, runs the test and then creates an executable file.

```console
$ mkdir build && cd build
$ conan install .. -s --build missing
$ cmake ..
$ cmake --build .
```

#### ‼️ Build Troubleshooting

If you suffer compile error like this during build step (especial on Linux with GCC):

> undefined reference to `testing::Message::GetString\[abi:cxx11]() const'

It's a well-known issue of GCC switching C++ runtime library from `libstdc++` to `libstdc++11` which are ABI incompatible. The most of earier versions of conan might design to remain using `libstdc++` for backward compatibility, you can tweak conan to adopt `libstdc++11` explictly by change then second command above to:

```console
$ conan install . -s compiler.libcxx=libstdc++11 --build missing
```

Then proceed with subsequent commands and it should build fine.

### Run the tests

There are two types of tests, the unit tests and the functional tests. These can be executed as follows.

- Run functional tests only

  ```console
  $ ctest .
  ```


### Run the application
  ```console
  $ ./app <address> <kPort> <concurrency>
  ```

## API

Below is a list of API endpoints with their respective input and output. Please note that the application needs to be
running for the following endpoints to work. For more information about how to run the application, please refer
to [run the application](#run-the-application) section above.

### Store Readings

Endpoint

```text
POST /readings/store
```

Example of body

```json
{
  "smartMeterId": <smartMeterId>,
  "electricityReadings": [
    {
      "time": <time>,
      "reading": <reading>
    }
  ]
}
```

Parameters

| Parameter      | Description                                           |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `smartMeterId` | One of the smart meters' id listed above              |
| `time`         | The date/time (as RFC3399) when the _reading_ was taken |
| `reading`      | The consumption in `kW` at the _time_ of the reading  |

Example readings

| Date (`GMT`)      | RFC3399                       | Reading (`kW`) |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------- | -------------: |
| `2020-11-11 8:00` | `2020-11-18T08:00:00.725202Z` |         0.0503 |
| `2020-11-12 8:00` | `2020-11-18T08:00:00.725202Z` |         0.0213 |

In the above example, the smart meter sampled readings, in `kW`, every minute. Note that the reading is in `kW` and
not `kWH`, which means that each reading represents the consumption at the reading time. If no power is being consumed
at the time of reading, then the reading value will be `0`. Given that `0` may introduce new challenges, we can assume
that there is always some consumption, and we will never have a `0` reading value. These readings are then sent by the
smart meter to the application using REST. There is a service in the application that calculates the `kWH` from these
readings.

The following POST request, is an example request using CURL, sends the readings shown in the table above.

```console
$ curl \
  -X POST \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  "http://localhost:8080/readings/store" \
  -d '{"smartMeterId":"smart-meter-0","electricityReadings":[{"time":"2020-11-18T08:00:00.725202Z","reading":0.0503},{"time":"2020-11-18T08:00:00.725202Z","reading":0.0213}]}'
```

The above command does not return anything.

### Get Stored Readings

Endpoint

```text
GET /readings/read/<smartMeterId>
```

Parameters

| Parameter      | Description                              |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `smartMeterId` | One of the smart meters' id listed above |

Retrieving readings using CURL

```console
$ curl "http://localhost:8080/readings/read/smart-meter-0"
```

Example output

```json
{
    "readings": [
        {
            "reading": 0.4,
            "time": "2021-08-20T07:04:49.000000Z"
        },
        {
            "reading": 0.123,
            "time": "2021-08-20T07:07:49.000000Z"
        },
        {
            "reading": 0.23,
            "time": "2021-08-20T07:10:49.000000Z"
        },
        {
            "reading": 0.432,
            "time": "2021-08-20T07:13:49.000000Z"
        },
        {
            "reading": 0.44,
            "time": "2021-08-20T07:16:49.000000Z"
        }
    ]
}
```

### View Current Price Plan and Compare Usage Cost Against all Price Plans

Endpoint

```text
GET /price-plans/compare-all/<smartMeterId>
```

Parameters

| Parameter      | Description                              |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `smartMeterId` | One of the smart meters' id listed above |

Retrieving readings using CURL

```console
$ curl "http://localhost:8080/price-plans/compare-all/smart-meter-0"
```

Example output

```json
{
    "pricePlanComparisons": {
        "price-plan-0": 4.0,
        "price-plan-1": 0.8,
        "price-plan-2": 0.4
    },
    "pricePlanId": "price-plan-1"
}
```

### View Recommended Price Plans for Usage

Endpoint

```text
GET /price-plans/recommend/<smartMeterId>[?limit=<limit>]
```

Parameters

| Parameter      | Description                                          |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `smartMeterId` | One of the smart meters' id listed above             |
| `limit`        | (Optional) limit the number of plans to be displayed |

Retrieving readings using CURL

```console
$ curl "http://localhost:8080/price-plans/recommend/smart-meter-0?limit=2"
```

Example output

```json
{
    "recommend": [
        {
            "price-plan-2": 0.4
        },
        {
            "price-plan-1": 0.8
        }
    ]
}
```
